Macy’s on Wednesday became the latest company to tell Donald Trump: “You’re fired.”
The retail giant announced it’ll phase out a ​specialty ​line of Trump products, after the real estate tycoon and presidential wannabe said too many law-breaking Mexicans are crossing the US border.
“We are disappointed and distressed by recent remarks about immigrants from Mexico. We do not believe the disparaging characterizations portray an accurate picture of the many Mexicans, Mexican Americans and Latinos who have made so many valuable contributions to the success of our nation,” Macy’s statement​ reads.​
“In light of statements made by Donald Trump, which are inconsistent with Macy’s values, we have decided to discontinue our business relationship with Mr. Trump and will phase-out the Trump menswear collection, which has been sold at Macy’s since 2004.”
There was no firm timetable of when all of Trump’s products would vanish from Macy’s shelves.
As of early Wednesday afternoon, there were still nearly 100 Trump dress shirts, ties and accessories still for sale on the Macy’s website.
Dresses and shoes made under the label of his daughter, Ivanka Trump, are considered a separate line and will not by impacted by Wednesday’s announcement, according to a Macy’s rep.
The GOP presidential hopeful fired back and insisted he’s the one terminating Macy’s.
He even ripped his own products because many are made in China.
“I have decided to terminate my relationship with Macy’s because of the pressure being put on them by outside sources. While selling Trump ties and shirts at Macy’s is a small business in terms of dollar volume, my principles are far more important and therefore much more valuable,” Trump said in a statement released by his campaign.
“I have never been happy about the fact that the ties and shirts are made in China, and should I start a new product line somewhere in the future, I would insist that they are made in America.”
The Donald admitted that using Chinese manufacturers was a good financial move that Americans could match.
“Quite frankly, I was never satisfied with manufacturing my product in China, but because of what they’ve done in terms of devaluing their currency, it is very hard for other companies to compete and make such apparel in the United States,” he said.
“These are the kinds of issues I am committed to addressing. Securing our border, negotiating trade deals that benefit the United States and bringing jobs back to America is my top priority.”
Trump’s anti-immigration stance has made him persona non grata at NBC. The 30 Rock network dumped his beauty pageants and reality show “The Apprentice” in light of his statements.
Trump on Wednesday also told the Golf Channel that he ­employs a countless number of Latinos at his real estate and golf holdings, saying, “They love me, and I love them.”
But the PGA Tour, LPGA, PGA of America and USGA issued a joint statement condemning Trump’s immigration comments.
“We feel compelled to clarify that those remarks do not reflect the views of our organizations,” the groups said.
The statement didn’t address whether the groups would pull out of any tournaments held on Trump courses.
The Donald’s flame-throwing and high-profile fights have kept his name in the news — perhaps explaining his strong showing in an Iowa poll on Wednesday.
Among likely caucus participants in the key state, Trump has 10 percent support, tied with Ben Carson and trailing only Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker at 18 percent, according to the Quinnipiac University poll.
Also Wednesday, the de Blasio administration said it would review all of Trump’s city contracts because of his comments. Officials did not specify what would be reviewed, but Trump’s city concessions include the Trump Rink in Central Park and his new golf course on city land in The Bronx.